= phidgets

* https://github.com/csdehaan/phidgets

== DESCRIPTION:

Phidgets are a set of "plug and play" building blocks for low cost USB sensing and control from your PC.
This gem provides a ruby interface to the phidgets library.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* This gem compiles a c extension for the phidget library, so the library must be installed and the development files must be located
  in a place that the compiler can find them. For windows the DevKit is required.
* The gem has been tested to work on both Linux and Windows.
* Tested with Phidget Library version 2.1.8.20130618
* Callbacks do not work on Ruby versions earlier than 1.9. This is because native threads are required for them to work.
* Method names follow the naming convention of the C library (getOutputState, setOutputState, etc). In addition, more "rubyish" aliases are provided (output_state, set_output_state, etc)

== SYNOPSIS:

  require 'phidgets'

  begin
    ik = Phidgets::InterfaceKit.new
    ik.open -1
    ik.wait_for_attachment

    puts "Device Name     = #{ik.device_name}"
    puts "Serial Number   = #{ik.serial_number}"
    puts "Device Version  = #{ik.device_version}"

    ik.close

  rescue Phidgets::Error => e
    puts e
  end


  # Or using callbacks:

  ik = Phidgets::InterfaceKit.new
  ik.on_attach { |phid|
    puts "Device Name     = #{phid.device_name}"
    puts "Serial Number   = #{phid.serial_number}"
    puts "Device Version  = #{phid.device_version}"
  }

  ik.open -1
  sleep 5
  ik.close


  # The gem also installs a command line program that will list all phidget devices that are attached, as well as allowing any
  # valid method for a given phidget type to be called. For example:
  
  # To list all phidgets attached to the local computer:

    => phidget list
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       | SerialNumber          | Device Name                                |
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       | 73723                 | Phidget InterfaceKit 0/0/8                 |
       | 88103                 | Phidget InterfaceKit 0/0/4                 |
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------

  # To list all phidgets attached to a remote computer:

    => phidget 192.168.100.67 list
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       | SerialNumber          | Device Name                                |
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       | 73782                 | Phidget InterfaceKit 0/0/8                 |
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------

  # To call a method for a specific local phidget:
    => phidget 73723 set_output_state 0 true
    
  # To call a method for a specific remote phidget:
    => phidget 192.168.100.67:73782 set_output_state 2 false


== REQUIREMENTS:

* The Phidgets library (http://www.phidgets.com/)
* For Windows the ruby DevKit is required
* The development header file and library must be placed in a location where the compiler can find them.
  For Linux this should be done when running "make install" for the Phidget Library. For Windows the files
  need to be copied from the install directory (\\Program Files\\Phidgets). phidget21.h can be copied to
  RUBY_DIR\\include\\ruby-1.9.1. phidget21.lib can be copied to RUBY_DIR\\lib.

== INSTALL:

* sudo gem install phidgets

== LICENSE:

Copyright (C) 2009  Craig DeHaan

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.

